# Diabetes-Kmeans clustering-project

For this problem we are going to use a diabetes data set collected from many US hospitals on the purpose of analyzing the factors causing readmission of diabetic patients. 
The dataset shows 10 years (1999-2008) of clinical care at 130 US hospitals and integrated delivery networks. It includes over 50 features representing patient and hospital outcomes. Readmitted feature consists of whether the patient is readmitted in less than 30 days or greater than 30 days or not readmitted at all. This feature can be considered the target variable.
The data contains such attributes as patient number, race, gender, age, admission type, time in hospital, medical specialty, number of lab test performed, diagnosis, number of medication, dia- betic medications, number of outpatient, inpatient, and emergency visits in the year before the hospitalization, readmitted etc. There are categorical variables like ’race’, ’gender’, ’age’, ’weight’, ’payer code’, ’medical specialty’, ’diag 1’, ’diag 2’, ’diag 3’, ’max glu serum’, ’A1Cresult’, ’metformin’, ’repaglinide’, ’nateglinide’, ’chlorpropamide’, ’glimepiride’, ’acetohexamide’, ’glipizide’, ’glyburide’, ’tolbutamide’, ’pioglitazone’, ’rosiglitazone’, ’acarbose’, ’miglitol’, ’troglitazone’, ’tolazamide’, ’ex- amide’, ’citoglipton’, ’insulin’, ’glyburide-metformin’, ’glipizide-metformin’, ’glimepiride-pioglitazone’, ’metformin-rosiglitazone’, ’metformin-pioglitazone’, ’change’, ’diabetesMed’, ’readmitted’.
The numerical variables are ’encounter id’, ’patient nbr’, ’admission type id’,’discharge disposition id’, ’admission source id’, ’time in hospital’,’num lab procedures’, ’num procedures’, ’num medications’, ’number outpatient’, ’number emergency’, ’number inpatient’, ’number diagnoses’

The features like time in hospital, age and num medications can be distributed in a histogram to check whether they are skewed or not and to check their relationship with the target variable, readmitted. This helps to determine, the age of people who are readmitted frequently and it also determines the number of medications prescribed for patients who are in the hospital for a long time. The dataset contains ’?’ and these are replaced to NaN values. There are about 101766 entries and 50 features in the entire dataset.

This is an implementation of Lloyd's Kmeans Algorithm, Kmeans with Sum of squares as converging criteria and Kmeans ++ from scratch of the Diabetes data.
